README.md, before:

# ojpoker | Updated: November 13, 2024

This is code for the [OneJoker](https://onejoker.org) project,
aiming to create libraries and other digital tools for handling playing cards
and card games in general, and more spcifically poker and its many variants.
I am writing it to provide some advantages over other libraries I have
encountered on the net:

- Completeness: Card-handling code covers things that others don't like
  jokers and foreign decks. Poker code handles more variants. I plan to
  add bindings for many languages.
- Correctness: Many libraries do not correctly handle things like lowball
  and badugi hands, or betting limits and procedures. Author is a long-time
  poker player and casino manager with extensive knowledge of the rules,
  and implements them carefully.
- Performance: Poker code is *fast*, taking full advantage of modern 64-bit
  machines. It does sacrifice memory efficiency for this in some cases.

This codebase is primarily a [Rust](https://rust-lang.org) library, but
will include bindings for other languages such as TypeScript and Python.
(Library documentation [here](https://lcrocker.github.io/ojpoker/)).

# Requirements

If you already have the Rust development environment and the
[Deno](https://deno.com) typescript runtime on your machine, you can jump
right in and run the build and test scripts:
```
./clean_build_all.ts
./test_all.ts
```

## Rust

If you are only interested in the Rust code, you can go to the `rust`
directory and use the usual commands: `cargo build`, `cargo test`, etc.
I am currently using Rust/Cargo 1.81.0.

## TypeScript

I am using Deno 2.0.5 (TypeScript 5.6.2) for the scripts, though
most older versions should work.
Deno scripts are used for automating build tasks and building and
converting data files.

TypeScript language binding coming soon...

## Python

Language binding coming soon...

# Data files

I use many serialized data sets for things like test data and pre-computed
lookup tables. The smaller and more necessary ones are checked into the repo
in the `data` directory, but some are very large and do not change often,
so they are not under source control. They can be downloaded from the repo's
[Releases](https://githib.com/lcrocker/ojpoker/releases) area.

If you copy the `.rs` files from releases into the Rust `src/poker` area,
you may then enable extra features in `Cargo.toml` to use those perfect hash
tables for poker hand evaluation.

## Card images

Inside the `data` directory is the `cards` directory which contains data
and Deno scripts for building [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SVG)
playing card images.
These can be easily customized to the needs of your software.
You can see a sample [here](https://onejoker.org/images).

# More information

More detailed documentation and dicussion of the code can be found on
the [ojpoker wiki](https://github.com/lcrocker/ojpoker/wiki) on GitHub.
Other resources are available at the
[OneJoker](https://onejoker.org) website.

Commit message:

Handle bug for high and ace-to-five

README.md, after:

# ojpoker | Updated: November 14, 2024

This is code for the [OneJoker](https://onejoker.org) project,
aiming to create libraries and other digital tools for handling playing cards
and card games in general, and more spcifically poker and its many variants.
I am writing it to provide some advantages over other libraries I have
encountered on the net:

- Completeness: Card-handling code covers things that others don't like
  jokers and foreign decks. Poker code handles more variants: high hands,
  ace-to-five lowball, deuce-to-seven lowball, London lowball, pai gow,
  action razz, badugi, badeucy, stripped decks, bugs, etc. I plan to add
  bindings for many languages.
- Correctness: Many libraries do not correctly handle things like lowball
  and badugi hands, or betting limits and procedures. Author is a long-time
  poker player and casino manager with extensive knowledge of the rules,
  and implements them carefully.
- Performance: Poker code is *fast*, taking full advantage of modern 64-bit
  machines and the latest known algorithms. You can choose which version
  of each evaluator suits your needs based on speed vs. memory efficiency.

This codebase is primarily a [Rust](https://rust-lang.org) library, but
will include bindings for other languages such as TypeScript and Python.
(Library documentation [here](https://lcrocker.github.io/ojpoker/)).

# Requirements

If you already have the Rust development environment and the
[Deno](https://deno.com) typescript runtime on your machine, you can jump
right in and run the build and test scripts:
```
./clean_build_all.ts
./test_all.ts
```

## Rust

If you are only interested in the Rust code, you can go to the `rust`
directory and use the usual commands: `cargo build`, `cargo test`, etc.
I am currently using Rust/Cargo 1.81.0.

## TypeScript

I am using Deno 2.0.5 (TypeScript 5.6.2) for the scripts, though
most older versions should work.
Deno scripts are used for automating build tasks and building and
converting data files.

TypeScript language binding coming soon...

## Python

Language binding coming soon...

# Data files

I use many serialized data sets for things like test data and pre-computed
lookup tables. The smaller and more necessary ones are checked into the repo
in the `data` directory, but some are very large and do not change often,
so they are not under source control. They can be downloaded from the repo's
[Releases](https://githib.com/lcrocker/ojpoker/releases) area.

If you copy the `.rs` files from releases into the Rust `src/poker` area,
you may then enable extra features in `Cargo.toml` to use those perfect hash
tables for poker hand evaluation.

## Card images

Inside the `data` directory is the `cards` directory which contains data
and Deno scripts for building [SVG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SVG)
playing card images.
These can be easily customized to the needs of your software.
You can see a sample [here](https://onejoker.org/images).

# More information

More detailed documentation and dicussion of the code can be found on
the [ojpoker wiki](https://github.com/lcrocker/ojpoker/wiki) on GitHub.
Other resources are available at the
[OneJoker](https://onejoker.org) website.
